hello everyone it's neil patel and today
is a new day and we're going to be
covering a new training course called
growth hacking unlocked where i teach
you everything you need to know about
growth hacking you're going to be
learning from me as well as other
founders who have created successful
companies like microsoft we're going to
go over what companies like microsoft
did what worked well for them what
didn't and how you can take all these
lessons from all these companies as well
as all the things we've learned at my ad
agency neil patel digital and implement
them within your business before we get
started a little bit about me i've
worked with a lot of large corporations
like microsoft amazon nbc
airbnb facebook the list goes on and on
i have an ad agency called neil patel
digital i was a top 100 entrepreneur
under the age of 30 by president obama
i've helped millions of small and medium
businesses mainly with my content and
tools i've also helped thousands of
businesses uh that are small and medium
as well through my ad agency neil patel
digital i'm not showing you all of this
to brag i don't think i know everything
i don't think i'm the smartest person
out there i know i'm not the smartest
person out there i don't think i know
everything in marketing i still have a
lot to learn but the point i'm trying to
make by showing you this and talking
about some of the companies i've worked
with is more so that i wouldn't have
worked with these companies if the
tactics that i've used didn't work and
because they work and because they're
effective i've continually been able to
build up my ad agency neil patel digital
so when i break down growth hacking to
you just make sure you pay attention
because the tactics will work and they
will help you grow faster the big thing
that i've learned over the years is if
you're not learning from other founders
you're missing out big time
it's not about learning from your
mistakes that's great and you should do
that but what separates the amazing
entrepreneurs and the amazing marketers
for the ones who are just mediocre is
the amazing ones are learning from other
people's mistakes other people's
journeys so that way they can make
better informed decisions
one of the entrepreneurs that i love to
death is bill gates you guys all know
bill gates he's super rich
and you know mainly for microsoft
and back in the day you know microsoft
ended up going public uh in the early
days during the dot-com boom they were
massive
and some of these companies like
microsoft were worth
more money than
the oil companies which back then were
shocking now it's not companies like
microsoft are worth you know well over a
trillion dollars and it's normal and
they grew through very unique strategies
that a lot of traditional companies
didn't use
these days they have a ton of different
business units from windows to office
skype xbox azure
outlook office 365. a google model after
microsoft and they wanted to build a os
system specifically for mobile devices
and they crushed it they even have one
for desktop which is their chromebooks
then later facebook mauled after google
and what's funny is from snapchat to
whatsapp a lot of these companies are
model after facebook funny enough
facebook also owns uh whatsapp and
instagram
so let's go over a rough timeline
microsoft it was started when bill gates
went to harvard university dropped out
in 1974 he created microsoft with paul
allen who they've been good friends
since they were kids in 1976 when he
formed a contract with mits to develop a
basic operating system for their new
microcomputers that's when things really
started to take off
now notes from the idea man himself
shortly before labor day bill checked
into a hotel with three legal pads and
10 pencils five days later he came out
with thousands thousands of bytes of
assembly language and code
he typed it into a terminal handed the
legal pads and said okay
you're gonna have to finish debugging it
i've got to go
then he was off to harvard as the
company grew and executive duties
multiplied bill would then get fewer
opportunities for such high wire
creativity in a way that was too bad and
he had a rare gift for programming
then he would focus at one task at a
time with total discipline you could see
it when he programmed he was one of
those guys that was just super laser
focused and that's how he really had
that big breakthrough with ibm you know
when you start looking in the 1980s ibm
approached them for a new basic
operating system for its new computers
ibm was six percent of the s p at the
time that made microsoft a really rich
company the windows release in 1990
microsoft released the first version of
windows alongside with apple this was
the first graphical user interface it
soon became a bestseller and was able to
capture most of the operating system
market
when you think about the history of
microsoft all of bill's blood sweat
tears even his ego it all went into
microsoft and then later after tyrosi
working for a quarter of a century to
make microsoft a great company creating
one of the biggest software companies in
the world that pretty much everyone had
within their home
he was super successful hence for one of
the longest periods of time he was one
of the richest people in the world
so let's go over some business lessons
right
the company's initial public offering in
and from there you know it continually
rose in price and eventually they had to
do stock puts to get the stock to a
reasonable price so more people could
afford it it created three billionaires
steve ballmer paul allen and bill gates
of course and it also created an
estimated 12 000 millionaires among the
employees
most of silicon valley companies out
there are based on a lot of the concepts
of microsoft
the big takeaway in the tech field
there's tremendous pressure even when
you're doing really well you must run
incredibly hard just to hold your
competitive position
as bill told tom on a nbc special in
1995 if you fall behind technically no
matter how much your past success has
been it's no guarantee that you can keep
doing well in the future
and since then their stock has
continually grown if bill gates never
sold his shares he would be worth over
450 billion dollars that's a lot of
money heck i would even take a billion
or a half a billion but just in
retrospect you know he has more money
than some countries even out there
and more than half of his fortune is
held in assets outside of holding
microsoft shares and his investments it
is in a holding company called cascade
investments one thing that i love about
bill gates is this quote take away our
20 best employees and i tell you that
microsoft would become an unimportant
company in other words he's saying the
people is what really built microsoft
now i have some action items for you
if you go to neilbatel.com training
click on growth hacking unlocked you'll
find some worksheets in there i want you
to download the course itinerary and the
growth hacking worksheet
by the end of the course you'll know how
to growth hack your business and drive
revenue keep in mind this is a two week
course there's five more lessons we just
covered the first one so you have five
more six in total and you can find all
the documents at neilpatel.com training
and then from there click on growth
hacking unlocked and if you have any
questions leave a comment below if you
enjoy the video like it share it in the
next few lessons we're going to really
dive deep into growth hacking and we're
going to go into not just strategy but
also actual tactics and if you just want
help and want my ad agency to do
everything for you check out np digital
which is short for neil patel digital
thank you very much